Yeah, uh, I, I, I mean, today, uh, we,
we have basically a sort of specific topic to
talk about because both me and you, uh, me
first, and then you, we, uh, read or played
whatever you want to call it, Taos and Fata
Morgan and I was completely blown away. You're going
to tell me about your own experience, but Uh,
I, I mean, just to begin with, what are
your, I mean, what are your first thoughts on
it?
My first thoughts are I'm so happy that something
like this exists and that it reached a wide
audience because, you know, current day conventional wisdom tells
us that everyone is interested in everything that's short.
We have short, you know, young people have short
attention spans, men don't like to read, you know,
all of these sort of, um, But modern day.
Tropes, for lack of a better word, that have
that, you know, we hear all the time now
that we're in the age of social media and
I have, I've I, I can't say that I've
completely bought into them because I think long-form podcasts
and shows like this demonstrate that there are actually
lots of people who want to hear this kind
of stuff and who want to have these deeper
conversations, these longer searching conversations, you know, the kind
that, that we have when we're 19 and we're
sitting in our, you know, apartments and And talking
to friends and trying to make sense of the
world and our place in it, you know, and,
and we, that's a, that's a thrilling thing to
continue to do throughout life, you know, and I
I was, first of all, I was blown away
by the story. I absolutely loved it. I, I,
it's so up my alley. It's kind of, it's,
it, you know, in, in some ways, it's very
similar to the kinds of things I like to
write and the kinds of things that inhabit my
own sort of fantasies anyway. So I, I was
definitely predisposed to like it. Um, BUT I loved
the how Complex it was. I mean, it, it
was hard to follow, and yet it was so
engaging, and it never made me want to give
up and, and let go. And I was also
just amazed looking through, cause, you know, I watched
it through, through, um, I don't have a gaming
computer. I don't have any of that stuff. I'm
very old school, you know. So I watched it
through YouTube, um, the way you, you know, you
recommended. And it was, it was a little difficult
for me at first because, you know, the whole
YouTube style is that whoever's, you know, channel it
is, is talking while they're taking you through the
house of Fata Marana. And at first I thought,
oh my God, I don't think I'm gonna be
able to stand this. I can't, this guy will
not shut up. I understand why he does it
this way. I understand that this is the way
it's supposed to be. But the story was so
good that I, after a while, I just tuned.
That out. You know what I mean? And I
don't even know if I was tuning it out
as much as I just, maybe it just sort
of all came together and I was, um, I
was drawn into the actual story. And that in
and of itself, given the format and my like
hostility to that format, is saying a lot about
the story. And, you know, and then I start,
um, YouTube channels that were focused on House of
Fata Morgan and consistently it was like the greatest
story ever told. Oh my God, I can't believe
how much I love this. And I was also
heartened that most of these channels were men. Yeah.
I've been told don't care about stories. Which I've
never believed, I've never believed, that's not been my
experience, but that's, you know, the conventional wisdom, which
I don't think it's wise. You know, it's just
conventional, right? And I, I, so I was, I
was just blown away by it. I Yeah It
never served me what I expected, and yet at
the end, it gave me everything I wanted.
Yeah. And, and we're certainly, we certainly have to
talk about that last scene because it's just the
best thing ever. But, but, but yeah, before we
get into that, you know, something that I really,
really loved about that story was that it starts
one way and you really don't know where you
are. You have no idea at all where it's
going. But then, Uh, as you progress, what comes
later makes what comes before even better, right? Did,
did you also have that feeling?
Uh, ABSOLUTELY, and it, it puts it all into
perspective and even when um You know, you, you,
I mean, I, I, I don't think that, I
was gonna say when your attention starts to lag,
but mine really didn't. It's just that when you're
maybe not sure where this is headed, let's put
it that way. And you're, you know, when, when
I was confused and I thought, well, wait a
minute, I'm, I'm not understanding what's happening here. Um,
EVENTUALLY, Everything will be illuminated, you know, and, and
it's, it starts to make sense and And on
top of that, when it does start to make
sense, it makes beautiful sense, you know, and it's,
and you, you feel simultaneously so impressed by the
storyteller and so clever yourself for having, you know.
STUCK with it and got into it. And I
think that that is a really great relationship between
a story and a and a And a reader,
a storyteller and a story absorber, I guess, you
know, um. And you can pull that off, you
know what I mean? Few stories can make you
feel that way. That's, that's a, that is a
a huge magic trick.
Yeah, no, because there are great stories that are
like, you start the story and you go through
it and it's all great from beginning to end.
But this one, it's like, Uh, everything is great,
but as you progress, what came before gets even
greater.
So. Yeah, I know, and
that's, that's really hard to pull off, really, really
hard. That's very, very hard to pull off. Um,
AND you can see it in, in so many
series that you might read or trilogies where they
start out so strong and, you know, you can't
wait to see how the author is going to
end it and then the author ends it and
you think, Really? That's what I've been waiting for.
And you, you almost kind of want to rewrite
your own ending or you just want to go
back and enjoy the first. You know, installments or
whatever it is, you know, the first couple of
books and pretend like the last book didn't happen.
You know what I mean? I mean, we've talked
about how Game of Thrones disappointed us probably 2
or 3 times now on these podcasts, but that
was, you know, that's, that's such a great example
of, of a story that's so great, um, that
just at least that, you know, the television version
obviously, but the television version became such a, a,
a disappointment. It felt like a bait and switch,
you know what I mean? THAT they served us
one thing and then they, you know, it started
off with lobster thermidor or whatever, and then they
switched it to, um, you know, boxed mac and
cheese or something.
Yeah. No, I, I mean, of the house of
Fata Morgan, I have just two small criticisms. I
mean, I still give it the 10 out of
10, of course. But anyway, uh, the, uh, two
small criticisms, the first one, I, I mean, the
beginning of it, the first door, uh, before the
first big twist. Yeah, it seems a bit misleading.
It seems one kind of story that you're going
to experience there. And then it completely shifts and,
and it can be a little bit at the
beginning you're seeing the story between Mel and Ellie
and the white. GIRL. And, uh, and it seems
a little bit childish and you're like, what the
heck is this? What the story is going to
be like? I mean, is this a story for
children or, and then, and then it shifts completely,
but up till that point, uh, it's misleading.
It is misleading. And you know what's, what, what
I think. WAS in the author's head and obviously
this is just speculation, right? But I think what
the author was trying to do was establish with
the audience or the reader, however, one is absorb,
you know, is taking in the story, um, was
Establish a baseline naivete, childlike naivete, and then take
them through that loss of innocence. So I, I,
I suspect, at least that that was very much
on purpose. But at the same time, I felt
the same way you did. I felt like it
was a complete bait and switch, you know, that,
you know, that. I, I was And I was
enjoying the story that was being laid out. I
was there it was a little, you know, like
you said, it, it seemed a little childish, but
that's OK because I think that some um I,
I think that, you know, like I love the
Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe, you know what
I mean? And that some sort of childish cartoony
sort of things can be really wonderful. So I
was absolutely open to it, but then it took
me in a completely different direction.
Yeah. And then the other one, the other criticism
is door number 2, I mean, the story of
the bestia, Yuki Mas and Pauline and, and those
people. I think it's dragged on a little bit
too long. Not, not, not extremely long, but, uh,
a little bit too long at a certain. Point,
I was already like, oh, come on, this is
already a bit, a bit too much. Yeah, and
that's actually a common criticism that some people have
because from door number 3, or at least door
number 4 onward, most people say, oh, no, this
is definitely a 10 out of 10, and 11
out of 10, whatever. But Uh, that, that door,
I mean, particularly when the white-haired girl arrives at
the mansion and their story, I mean, perhaps it's
dragged a little bit too long there. I don't
know.
Yeah, I think, I, I think you're right, and
it was funny cause when that, um, when that
door, you know, opened for lack of a better
word, right? I thought, oh, I see where this
is going. They're now going for Beauty and the
Beast sort of story and perhaps each story is
going to take on a new mythology that is
kind of in our consciousness. But again, that's not
really what they did. I mean, yes, of course,
there were, there was nothing. There was no entirely
new ground that was broken, right? These are, it's
such a mythological story, and, and these stories have
been, you know, told for millennia. But it was
not that way. Only door number 2 kind of
had that going on. And then it, it again
took a completely different direction, but without, um, Kind
of destroying your emotional connection to the characters in
the world. And that's another really incredible magic trick
to pull off as a storyteller. You know, and
I, I was so impressed with and Um, And
want to learn from, you know, because that's you
hope to inspire the kind of emotions that Haafana
Morgana. Inspires and um You know, and the people
who read your stories or watch your stories depending
on what they're the,
by the way, when it comes to the twists
that we get across the different doors, was there
any one of them that you sort of saw
coming, or? Because there was one that I, I,
I saw coming. I, I got it right, but
it was just
the one I'm trying to remember, um, because I,
I, I, I watched it actually, you know, when
you and I talked about it first and then
I, I refreshed myself because I, I want to
remember. Because I couldn't remember and I'm looking over
my notes from ages ago. Um.
I mean, door number 1 was the twist, door
number 1 was the twist with the, the siblings.
Door number 2 was the twist that Yuki Masa
basically, basically killed Pauline, which appeared as another best
year. Uh, AND, and that the best year was
Yuki Maso, of course. Door number 3 was basically
the twist that Maria was plotting against the white-haired
girl and
the right, yeah, um. That I guess that that
didn't surprise me particularly. I was sort of expecting
a door number 3.
Yeah, yeah, that didn't me. I, I expected that.
I thought that was a common trope. What I
didn't expect was that Michelle or Michel, I don't
know how it's,
it's it's Michel because it's a French name. So
right,
that's right, that's kind of what I thought, but
I, I always pronounce it the Czech the way
a Czech would, which is Michel was wrong, but
um. I did not expect Him to not have
a penis, that's for sure. That was a wild
twist for me, that they would come up with
that, you know, as a, as a romantic twist
and actually make it work because usually that's, that's
such a weirdly like Embarrassing, obviously desexualizing, you know,
I mean, literally, but yet they still made the
romance work despite that, I thought it was pretty
incredible.
Yeah. By the way, uh, you, did you know
that the story, I mean, the author, Keika Hanada
started writing that story in 2009. And so inserted
that bit, I mean, with an intersex person in
the story and made it really meaningful. I mean,
what do you think about that? Because he basically
He was using something that in the current political
and cultural environment would be very controversial and they
basically like, I don't know, was 15 years ahead
of his time or
whatever. You know, I, I took it, usually, I
feel like that's, um, something like that is inserted.
INORGANICALLY and for political reasons, and you can feel
that, and I don't like to feel that. Like,
I, I will take anything in a story. Um,
WHATEVER slant it has, as long as it feels
organic to the story, and I, I, you know,
first, this was such a, a, a A a
symbolic story in. In every way. So when, uh,
in using that that didn't bother me at all.
You know, I thought it was really interesting, and
I thought he actually did a, a very good
job at making it a, a believable part of
the story and, and making the character extremely empathetic.
Um And dealing with very real pain and emotions
that would come with something like that with that
kind of condition too instead of making it just
a political trope that that is about 1 inch
deep rather than the mile deep that it needs
to be. Does that make sense?
Yeah, sure,
sure, yeah, I know I'm and I thought in
in his use of it, I thought it was
a really, really interesting device. Instead of an insertion.
Do you know what I mean? That, that feels
conscious, like, oh, here we have a non-binary character,
which there's nothing wrong with having a non-binary character.
It's like, but please don't make it feel like
you're trying to, trying to have a non-binary character.
Make it, make it happen, you know? Give us
real emotions and real relationships, and real struggles, and
real triumphs with this character and not just, um,
Yeah. And it's not, it's not political at all.
Or at least it doesn't feel political at all.
I, I, I mean, there, there's just that small
thing which for, for the purposes of the story,
it's also great where since he's placing like an
intersex character in the Middle Ages, there's lots of
social persecution. And uh, in the end, he ends
up, uh, Uh, murdered, executed because of that and
these, uh, and is treated like a demon, a
demon's child, a witch, something like that. So, the,
the, if there's anything that is slightly political about
it, it would be that, but it makes perfect
sense in the context of the story. So
I, that's exactly what I thought. I thought that
it was. Mm Brilliant, you know, I thought it
was really, really well done.
Oh my God, but, but you know something that,
uh, when you went through the story of the
maid. And basically, Gisele going through those hundreds of
years, those centuries waiting for Michelle to come back.
I mean, didn't you feel, or sort of feel
the, the same pain that she felt and, and
the boredom and all of them. I think that,
that bit was really well made because, of course,
you're not. Not the character, it's herself. You're, you're
not yourself going through hundreds of years waiting for
your loved one to appear again, to, uh, get
reconstructed or whatever. But, uh, you, you feel a
little bit determined,
right? Absolutely. And that's a That was So, I,
I mean, that was just so beautifully done, and
I don't know. It the the prose is actually
very simple in this, and that's what's so incredible
about it, you know, it's not. Overly written, it's
not. Feeling floral, you know, the way sometimes stories
like this, these sort of epic stories can be
either overwritten the way, you know, with just too
much detail, for instance, that you can get that
in epic fantasy where the, it's just, you know,
drawn too heavily. It's, it's every little detail is,
is, is, um, I filled in, which can be
really off-putting because it doesn't allow you to sort
of bring your own imagination into it, or it
can just be too floral and, and that can
be off-putting because you can almost like smell the
perfume coming off the the words. But um but
the, the author was really able to strike. That
That balance of, of just being really descriptive in
his language, but simple enough that you feel so
drawn in. It's, and, and you're so right. All
those years of waiting, you feel like you are
waiting with the character and you're in pain with
the character. And you, you know, you can actually
feel, feel it physically in your body hurting, you
know, or, and, or you can feel that sense
of longing that you feel yourself when you're going
through something. That is difficult and you're waiting, you
know, you're in, you know, what Doctor Seuss calls
the waiting place, right? Um, And I thought that
was just, I thought it was incredible and it,
you know, I don't want to jump to the
end, but it's it's it's all of that waiting
that. That he was able to take you through.
And also, I mean, I thought he, he took
you through pain in a very, you know, obviously
in a very graphic way, but also in a
very Real way and you were, you found yourself
as a, as a reader for lack of a
better word, um, you found yourself as as a
as a reader. Experiencing the unimaginable and yet somehow
able to shoulder it. Yeah. And that's what I
thought was so incredible. And I think that that's
really what resonates. I suspect what resonates. With so
many people and watching this and what resonates with
with male readers, you know, because that Um, There
was a kind of an equal amount of, of
pain and strife with the, with the male and
the female characters. It wasn't just like one woman
pining for something and you, and, but you don't
really know what the guy is feeling, you know,
cause there's so much now written from, even if
it's, if the, if the main character is a
guy, it's written for women because 80% of the
reassure women. So it's very much from a woman's
point of view. And yet I felt like this,
this really brought everybody in and, and showed that
sort of the The human pain that, that we
feel and what I also loved, loved, loved about
it was um That even the antagonists and the
characters who do really terrible things, they're not excussed,
and it's not even like, oh, but here's why
they did those terrible things, so it's OK, but
it's just, here's their story. Here's why they did
those terrible things. You know, with Um, so there
was judgment for their actions, but not judgment for
them as human beings and their experience, which Again,
I thought was was just brilliant because it makes,
it doesn't make them cartoon characters, for instance, because
cartoon villains are boring as hell and you don't,
you don't just wanna. YOU know. Except maybe in
a slasher movie or something and like Halloween, you
know, you don't just want this purely evil uh
character that has nothing else going on, you know,
other than, well, this is an evil character, you
know, um. And I, I, I thought the author
did just a brilliant, uh, job of Showing us.
How we become villains.
Yeah. And uh, and when it comes to the
antagonists, I guess that also toward the end of
the final door when Michelle sort of goes back
in time to try to get their backstory and
show it to Morgan for them, for her, yeah,
and, yeah, yeah, when, when they did that. I
mean, I guess that the message there and even
perhaps Yuki Masa is the most brutal of all
of them, and Jacopo is also very vicious. But,
uh, yeah, but, but I guess that the message
there was that for all of them, even with
all the bad things they did, they were never
completely unredeemable.
Right. No, no, and um I think that a
lot of modern stories have ignored the redemption arc.
Of a character, um. Because there has been, at
least in the last, I don't know, maybe. Last
couple of decades, I think that they're um There
has been just a, a lack of grace towards
Our villains, you know what I mean? But that,
that I think has also, there's been a lack
of grace in our culture, you know, with, with,
once social media became so big and with people
digging up, you know, what somebody said on social
media 10 years ago, for heaven's sake, or when
they were when they were a kid and trying
to use that to, to destroy their future. You
know what I mean? There's been a real lack
of grace and it was so refreshing to, um,
get absorb absorbed in a story that, um, That
was abundant with race, and yet was also abundant
with horror. You know, and with, with tragedy and
beauty and villainy, you know.
Yeah. And, and another thing, you know, something that
the story reminded me of was, uh, the Dante's
Divine Comedy. Because, you know, there's the doors, and
in each door, if you look closely, you have
one or several different kinds of scenes. And then,
yeah, and then I guess that you can also
interpret, interpret it as if you look at the
story of Michelle and Gisele particularly, is, it's like
you start in hell and then Uh, as Michelle
walks up the stairs in the, in the uh
in the watchtower, uh, to, uh, learn the story
of Morgan, uh, it's sort of like purgatory. And
then there's also the version of Purgatory for Giselle,
and she has to wait hundreds of years for
Michelle to come back. And then toward the end,
it's like, Arriving in paradise or something like that.
So, and then, and then it's like, and then
it's like door number 1. At least this is
the way I understood it. Door number 1, it's,
uh, the main scene there, I guess, is cowardice,
and then door number 2 is wrath. Door number
3, it's like pride and greed. Uh, AND then,
and then, uh, and, and then, of course, it,
it's not that door number 4567, as it deals
with another particular kind of scene specifically, but I
guess that maybe more again, uh, also as, uh,
her particular scene is, I, I'm not sure if
There's a specific word for it, but it's basically
the sin of not being able to forgive who
wronged you, something like that. I'm not sure if
there's a word for that.
Yeah, I feel like there is a word, and
I can't think of the specific word too because
she was so wronged, you know, it's not. It
it was so unequivocal what happened to her.
Oh my God, she, she has the most brutal
backstory, my God.
Oh my God, you know, and And then she
gets her arm chopped off on top of it
and is chained, you know, in in a prison,
and it's her story is so Unbearably tragic. Yeah.
Um, THAT It's hard to imagine. It's actually a
testament to the goodness of her soul that she
split into two, that her personality split into two,
and she became the white-haired girl, you know? And,
and that was, you know, the embodiment of the
goodness that was left in her. And then, you
know, the, the, the witch, the Morganic character was
that. You know, incredibly hurt part of her who
could not let go, and became a force of
destruction instead of a force of grace and good,
the way the white-haired girl, you know, was, was
that. And, um, Oh. God, that's just so incredible,
you know.
But, but can you imagine someone in real life
going through what Morganda went through? I mean, like.
Yeah, yeah, yeah,
go ahead, go ahead.
I thought what Giselle went through was bad. Yeah,
you know what I mean, I thought, oh my
God, I can't believe she, you know, she survived
that, and then what Michelle went through was so
horrible and, and, and cruel and Uh, and then,
you know, you, you get to the antagonist story.
Yeah. And you're given this incredibly Horrific, human, and
strangely hopeful. Story for this person. You know, there
was something so hopeful again, with the redemption arc.
I mean, one of the reasons why redemption arcs
are so beautiful is because they're hopeful. And we
always want to believe that we can Reach someone.
Who seems that, you know, after who has been
consumed by their demons. Yeah. And that we can
somehow cast out those demons, you know.
Yeah. And also toward the end, when Morgan, uh,
sort of freeze, uh, nail or malls, sorry, Mel
Yuki Mas and Jacopo from the mansion. Uh, AND
she doesn't actually completely forgive them. It's a very
realistic way of dealing with it because, uh, I
mean, of course, it would be ideal if she
had just completely, for, for, uh, she had just
completely forgive them, but, uh, It, it, uh, but
it sounds more realistic that way. I mean, because
she had been so, so hurt by them that,
uh, I mean, she was already doing something good.
She was basically Uh, again, not forgiving them, but
sort of finally being able to move on beyond
torturing them or torturing them forever and taking delight
in that. But, uh, it's, it sounded, I, I
don't know, it sounded very realistic to, to when
things that way.
I totally agree. I felt like she got to
a place where she could forgive but not forget.
You know what I mean? Forgive. I mean maybe
forgive is even too strong, but where she wasn't,
she was done punishing, like you said. She was
done hating, she was letting go of that. She's
letting go of them too, which I think if
there had been more of a, a, a forgiveness
narrative in the, in the, like the, you know,
the prodigal son kind of way where you welcome
this person back into your life and you kill
the fatted calf. But that's That was not that
story, and I'm glad it wasn't that story too.
I think that it, it needed to be exactly
what it was.
But you know, something that I think is one
of the biggest themes across the entire story is.
Uh, THE importance of honest communication because I mean.
If you look across the several different stories and
it's perhaps even more dramatic in the door, uh,
I mean, the complete miscommunication or even lack of
communication between the white-haired girl and the Jacopo, and
that's what ruins their relationship. It's not even Maria.
Maria, it's just contributing a little bit to that,
uh, but, uh, and then, uh. To contrast that
with when finally, Giselle and Michelle reunite after that
dramatic night where Michelle, uh, almost, uh, stabs her
with a knife, and she runs away, and then
she comes back and they, and they basically lay
out everything about their, about their lives, what happened
to them. I mean, apart from the, Uh, the
back, uh, some of the story of Michelle, which
is saved for later and the fact that he's
intersects and stuff like that. But yeah, most of
what's important, they lay out, and then, I mean,
it works for them, but for the others, it
doesn't work and it's because they, they are unable
to honestly communicate to other people what they are,
how they feel, and stuff like that. Right.
Yeah. Yeah.
So for, for me, at least in part, this
is basically a tragedy of miscommunication or lack of
communication, if you want to put it that way.
Yeah, I mean what the, what all the doors
did, you know, the different doors, the different chapters,
however, There was I mean, yeah, I think you're
right. I think that that's kind of the big
takeaway in terms of like interpersonal relationships is communication,
but I, I feel like in the best sort
of style of an epic story of a mythology
is that it, it took you through human foibles.
Um, AND the best and the worst, and, and
helped us kind of work through our own. Emotions
and our own um mistakes. Yeah. In in this
highly dramaticized form, right? Where, where the mistakes that
these characters made had such dire consequences, you know,
I mean, in our own lives, usually the mistakes
we make are consequences are not quite so dire.
You know, they're, they're, they're less so, but, but
they're definitely Related to or you know, reflected in
this somehow that they're, they're smaller versions of that
perhaps, but it kind of helps take you through
that and also helps you understand. Um, How How
a mistake, how Lying to yourself and others, miscommunication,
you know, whether it's on purpose or on accident,
um, what a force of destruction it is and
how it can completely take you down.
Yeah. By, by the way, when it comes to
The, the, the first three doors and because there's
that element there of to what extent the tragedy
was brought up by Morgan because they were drawn
to the mansion and the mansion was under her
control to completely ruin their stories, their, their stories
in their, in their new life, let's say. Um,
I mean, to what extent do you think that,
uh, tragedy was caused by Morgan or caused by
the behavior of the, the characters anyway, and it
would have happened anyway, because the, there, there's that
lingering question, right? I mean, would it have happened
the same way if Morgan didn't manipulate? Their story
and what happened in the, in the men uh
uh if she didn't do that, would it have
happened and and and for me and for me
it seems that it would so I,
I. What I thought was interesting about it, um,
yeah, I mean, I think ultimately I agree with
you, because would it have happened exactly the same
way if Morgana hadn't been manipulating the, the situation?
No, it wouldn't have happened exactly the same way.
But the fact was, was that the, the, what
she was Her manipulations, um, brought out what was
already there in those characters. Yeah. And, uh, it
might have been something else that came out, or
even if it was, you know, the same sort
of instinct at the same sort of Powerfully negative
uh force that, that kind of came out to
play. It, it might have changed the circumstances some,
but I think they would have been no less
tragic. Yeah, yeah. You know, what had to be
learned. That was the lesson that had to be
learned. And You know, I, one of the things
that, um, there's a, I'm gonna mess up this,
this. Quote, OK, so I'm just understand that I'm
paraphrasing pretty egregiously, but there's um Of an author
named John O'Donoghue. Um, I mean, he's no longer
alive. He was an Irish priest and he was
just, I mean, my God, I mean, he's just
a beautiful writer and he, he wrote it basically
an entire book on beauty, on meditations on beauty,
and one of the, one of his, um, Well,
one of the things that that he writes about
is how There's a, he feels like there's a
misunderstanding of beauty as being, um, naive. And he
really does not like naivete that, oh, she's an
innocent beauty. And he's like, innocent beauty is useless
because this person has never been tested, or not
this person, that beauty has never been tested, you
know, and naivete is untested. So anybody can be
naive and be good when they're naive. Yeah. You
know, but it's, it's once we have lost our
innocence and we continue to be good, that is
the test, you know, and he talks about, um,
true beauty, and he's also talking about physical beauty,
and he, when he, when he's discussing this, this,
you know, um, so it's, it's, he's talking about
beauty and, and, and not just like inner beauty,
you know what I mean? And, and, and talking
about how, um, Beauty is the ultimate source of
empathy, and that's why we must appreciate it, and
it is not simple, and it is not innocent,
and it is not naive. Yeah. And, um, and
I thought that that was demonstrated really well and,
you know, in, in Fata Morgan, because there was
no, that, you know, any innocent beauty was just
destroyed after the first door, right? And again, that
takes me back to like what I thought the
authors and. TENSION was with that first door of
creating oh do do do do, here we are
wandering through the field and there are butterflies and
the birds singing, and it's a sunny day. There's
not a cloud in the sky and none of
us have pimples because we're kids and we look
great, you know what I mean? And then, and
then the whole world comes crashing down. And, and
these people sort of have to rebuild themselves into
paradise and, and to earn their way back to
paradise again, except that once they earn their way
back to paradise in that glorious ending, it's no
longer that naive innocent beauty. It is the true
beauty that, that, that John O'Donoghue was talking about.
Yeah, because the, uh, like the, the story, I
mean, the, uh, the ending is, uh, like they
lived happily ever after kind of ending. But in
that particular case, it's, uh, very well pulled off
and they lived happily ever after kind of ending,
right? It's not,
because nothing stupid, it's gonna take them down now,
you know. Yeah, yes.
So it, it, it makes perfect sense. It's not
one of those happily ever after endings that it's
just silly. It's just, oh yeah, this was, this
was kind of boring. No, it's not only that
it makes perfect sense, but you want that ending.
If, if that ending wasn't there, the, uh, I
mean, the, the story would have been just, I
don't know, pure torture.
I know, you're you're absolutely right. It would have
felt like it was for nothing. You know, it
would have felt like an intellectual trick, like, oh,
well, because this is really how it would have
ended up and I, you know, I, I hate
that. It's like come on, you're telling me a
story. I mean the whole point of a fairy
tale, for instance, it's isn't. And they lived happily
ever after. It's, they lived happily ever after, despite
all the shit that happened to them, right? Or
because of all the stuff that happened to them,
because, you know, the prince had to fight through
beasts and thorns, in order to, you know, kiss
Sleeping Beauty or whatever, and, and through, you know,
this, this horrible witch. Um, AND it's because, um,
you know, Snow White had to overcome death, you
know, after eating the poison apple and the, the,
the The prince had to to be the catalyst
for that, you know what I mean, that that
they actually could live happily ever after, because otherwise,
well, how boring for one thing, but otherwise why
would they live happily ever after? They're totally untested.
Why would we care if they live happily ever
after, just because they're, you know, he's a prince
and she's pretty. Yeah. You know?
Yeah. And I mean, the kinds of things that
Michelle and Gisele had to go through in the
story to get to that ending. I, I, I
mean, you can't, uh, demand more from anyone when
it comes to proving their love. I mean, it's
it's more and more than proof.
It is, and it's also, you know, it also
tells you how, or shows you how That's sort
of uh happily ever after. It's because of gratitude.
Because you're so grateful to finally be there. And
without gratitude, you don't appreciate what you've got in
your life. You know, you don't appreciate the person
in your life, your circumstances, whatever it is, even
when you're going through difficult times, and gratitude is
wisdom. Yeah. You know, we're not born grateful for
the most part. We earn, we earn that, you
know.
Yeah. You, you know one particular scene that I
love from the story, uh, because it, uh, establishes
a perfect contrast between Michelle and Morgan, because, I
mean, you can establish parallels between their stories because
Michelle is basically the one who is able to
forgive everyone who wronged him. But Morgan. He's the
one who's not, or at least needs a little
bit of a push, a little bit of help
there. But this, the scene where Michelle asks Gisele
if she wants Antony, his father, to be, to
be cursed because of the, of the sexual assault.
And she, and she says, no, but I mean,
He was, if she had said yes, he would
have asked Morgan to curse him, and he, he,
he would have gone with it. But it was,
but the only reason why he would have done
it with it was because of love. It was
not because he wanted vengeance for himself. He wanted
vengeance for her, for Giselle,
right? Yes, and it was incredibly powerful that she
said no to, you know, that it was, it
was. That was a very honorable. Resolution, I thought,
you know, on both ends, right, because he needed.
To say that that he would. Get vengeance on
her behalf. You know what I mean? He needed
to say, I'm willing to do this. I'm willing
to protect you this way. I'm willing to guard
your, your dignity and help try to help heal
your soul this way, even if this is, you
know, Even if it will sully my own soul,
I'm willing to do this for you and um.
And she said no. Yeah.
But, but look, when it comes to. Perhaps the
most frustrating part of the entire story. I mean,
I mean, for me, it has to be uh
the story between Jacopo and the white-haired girl it's
so incredibly frustrating how they, how they felt the
same for each other. And how, I mean, if
she just went out of the, uh, cottage house
or something, or if he went there and talked
with her or vice versa, they were sold everything.
They would have solved everything. I mean, it, it
was just like, oh my God, come on. Either
of you just go and talk with the other
person, stop writing letters and stuff and stop depending
on Maria to get you the letter.
Yeah, exactly. It's like, really, has it never occurred
to you that, that, that maybe this is that
you're being messed with? Yeah, you know. Yeah. Are
you so involved in your story and the way
you think it should turn out that you're not
really thinking? What's going on around you, you're not
thinking three dimensionally, you know, that was part of
what was so frustrating about it, and that was,
and, and maybe that was also um Part of
what Did not make them so innocent in that.
Yeah. You know that that they Oh enjoyed their
um, their punishment a little too much in order
to kind of set themselves free and be happy
when, you know, all they had to do was
go to the other person, but there was something
that they were getting out of. He was getting
something. Out of punishing her and believing the worst.
And she was getting something out of being punished.
For, you know, quote, no reason, right? Um, BUT
Uh, That was, yeah, that was. That was really
good.
Yeah, but, but, and at the same time, it
made lots of sense because of his, of Jacopo's
backstory because he was part of the mafia and
he, and he was brought up in that sort
of, uh, machismo kind of environment and where it
would have been, uh, I, I don't know, extremely
shameful for him to be betrayed by his wife
or something like that.
So, I, I mean. So, yeah, yeah.
I mean, so you, you basically, it's very frustrating,
but at the same time, you understand where it
comes from.
For sure, you know, it's kind of like what
like Othello, right? You're, you're watching Othello, you know,
destroy his, his relationship with his wife and, and,
and. Because he can't, you know, he's, he just
can't not believe what Igago is saying, you know.
And he ends up killing her as a result,
you know, and all he had to do was
go and ask her or believe her or, or
look around Iago. You know, I felt like that
it was very Shakespearean, that, that story.
Or, or even read them letters because the things
she
wrote there. Yeah. The thing she wrote there,
it was things that happened between them. I mean,
it wouldn't make sense for her to have experience.
THE exact same things, the exact same episodes with
another person.
No, no. It, it was, it was funny because
that was, it was so frustrating, you know, you're,
it's like the, it's, it's like watching, uh, you
know, a horror movie and, and, and, uh, you're
watching, you know, someone who's about to get killed
go into the dark room and you're like, why
are you going in the dark room? Why are
you going in the dark room? You know?
Yeah, yeah. But, but, but it, it's, it's realistic,
you know. We, we get frustrated with it, but
it's very, very realistic. I bet that. Well, that's
it,
because we get frustrated with it because we see
ourselves in all of this. And that's what was,
uh, you know, also so great about it, because
it, it connects you to your own foibles, you
know, and also to your own triumphs.
Yeah. By, by the way, earlier I mentioned the
Divine Comedy, but I, I mean, the entire story
has lots and lots of religious elements to it.
No, I mean, the entire, the entire Morgan story,
and then Michelle being the name of the archangel
Michael, and the, and the, the way he basically,
uh, in the last door. Uh, I, I don't
know what word to use here, but because it
was not really redeeming her, but, but he went
to Morgan and basically gave her a last moment
of Oh my God, what should I call it?
When, when she, when he holds her in, in
his arms and she's about to die, I mean,
what would you call that? What does he do?
Solace isn't the right word and it neither is
like forgiveness. It's sort of like, um. Yeah absolution
isn't even the right word. But it is, but
there is a real, you're right, I think that
it's very religious, maybe it is absolution in a
way that it it's, it's, it's a level of
understanding from a spiritual perspective that that. Allows a
person to go into the dark night, right? That
allows them to go and not fear and, and
to know that they will be understood.
Right. And uh and it's basically relieving even though
it's very brief relieving your pain and help her
rest in peace, in a way, yeah. Because, because
it's like you went through all of that, but
now I'm an angel. I've been sent by God,
and I'm here to, and I'm here to lead
you to heaven, to paradise or something like that.
Yeah, you, you've suffered enough, so. Yeah. Right. Yeah.
So, uh, so I, I have to, I have
to ask you then, uh. I is this. The
best story ever written or or not.
It is really freaking good because not only is
it Like genuinely like good from a from a
like any perspective, a literary perspective, but it's so
damn entertaining. Yeah, you know, and what it what
it it manages to do what Most like even
really good literary novels. Don't pull off, you know,
because they're, because it's wildly entertaining. It shows that
you can be wildly entertaining and engage your, your
audience, you know, your reader in fully as you
were as engaged as you would be watching Maverick
or whatever or some other kind of incredible story,
you know, on, on a, that, that's larger than
life and, and that, you know, most critics would
look their, they're looked down on, you know, it
is as every bit as exciting and engaging as
that, and yet it's so. Good, and it's so.
Deep, you know, and, and spiritual, and, and, you
know, it it's, it's so big. Yeah. Sorry, I
just want to turn off my phone because I
can't stand when they when it rings when I'm
talking. Um, AND I forgot to turn it off,
but that's it. And that, that alone could possibly
make it like at least the greatest story that's
been written in a really, really long time because
it, it manages to be, um, both. So entertaining,
so adventurous. You know, I mean, What an adventure,
you know, and yet it's, it's really, really good.
It's so well written. It's so well thought through.
It's so complex. And yet it, it, it, it,
it's simple. You know what I mean? I mean,
it's just talking about very simple emotions that we
all have, you know, it's not, um, you don't
have to twist yourself into pretzels to, to understand
what's happening and what's, what they're going through, you
know, in their hearts and in their souls, you
know, and, and how, and their thought process, you
know, it's just, God, I thought it was so
good. I just thought it was so good. I,
I can't praise it enough. Yeah I've I've been
telling people about it. A lot.
And and and the how, how do, yeah, how
do people react when you tell them that it's
a visual novel because it's not that common yet
for people to read those types of things,
right? They're very intrigued and it has really kind
of lit a fire in me to want to
get into the visual novel space for my own
work. Yeah, because it's You know, I thought when
I after I started watching it through, you know,
the YouTube, um, Channel that you, you recommended. And
I was like, God, I wish I could just
get rid of this narrator guy, you know, who's
talking, taking us through. And so I, you know,
I, I went to Amazon and you can get
the House of Fata Morgana in book form. You
know, you can get it on Kindle. And I'm
sure that that it probably has some imagery with
it. I'm, I, I'm, that's unclear, but It just,
it wasn't the same, you know, I feel like
the reason why Um, it can be You know,
the narrative is so complex. You know, it's, it's
not like serpentine, it's kaleidoscopic, you know, I mean,
it is crazy and um one of the reasons
why you can follow it pretty easily is because
it's also so visual. And that gives you so
much more um to work with as, as an
author, you know, you can, you can really go
that much farther and you can, you can. Make
a story a lot more difficult without frustrating the
audience, and so it it that was, that was
really, really exciting for me. I, I loved the
visual aspect of it. Now I'm trying to, you
know, that's one of the things that I've been
Promoting when I talk to people about this story.
I'm like, no, no, no, it's gotta be, you
know, it's gotta be seen as well as read.
And I love that they have you read it
too. It's not, you know, the words are there.
You see it's meant to be read. It's not
a movie. You know what I mean? It is
meant to be read, but it's also meant to
be seen. And it's, you know, more complicated than
than a comic book though, you know, which is.
Yeah. Which has just a different vibe to it
entirely, you know.
No, it's, it's really a unique medium, really.
It's, it's, it's really, really unique.
And and what about, what about the soundtrack? I
also love the soundtrack.
I love that, yeah, and I feel like it
was interrupted a lot because again I had a
narrator, so I couldn't really absorb it and it
it it really made me want to get a
gaming computer just in order to be able to
watch visual novels, because the, yeah, I mean the
it it. It was such a an incredible combination
and a and a fresh combination. Obviously movies put
together music and visual and and dialogue, but um
But the added dimension is the is the prose,
you know, that you can also appreciate the written
word while you're watching this. And really appreciate it,
you know, you don't get, uh, you don't get,
you don't start thinking about other things when you're
reading, you know what I mean? You're, you're fully
engaged. And um damn, I wish, I really wish
that Movie theaters. Would present visual novels as well
as films. I wish there was a place where
you could um where you could watch this on
a large screen. Yeah, you know, I mean, obviously
it's very long, you know, so that, that it
presents some problems, but maybe, you know, you could
buy. You know, tickets for, you know, all eight
doors or whatever it is, and then you go
when you can and you go watch your door,
you know, and there are ways to do it.
And I just think that that would be so
incredible. And what a way to bring in new
people too, and, and to, to just do something
different and, and explore the, you know, visual storytelling
that way. Yeah, I, I,
I think they should, I think they should make
it into a series. I mean, I think it
would be mass massively popular. I think it would
be so, so successful. I mean, a story like
this, uh. It it can't go wrong.
It's, I don't, I agree. Well, it can go
wrong in the wrong hands. It can definitely go
wrong because you're you're gonna, yeah, you're gonna have
someone doing a lot of stupid shit and you
know you are. You know you're gonna have some,
you know, some member of the the creative committee,
right, going, yeah, you know, I don't know. I
think Michelle needs a dick. You know what I
mean? Yes. You know you're gonna have someone in
there saying that, right? Or, uh, I don't think,
I don't think Morgana needs to be quite that
ugly after she's destroyed. And, you know, she, and
maybe we ought to keep her hot. You know,
it's just, you just know you're gonna have somebody
saying something stupid. So it can go wrong, but
hopefully, in the right hands of someone who is
a real fan, you know, and, and appreciates the
story. And, um, They would find a way and
do justice. To it, you know,
this is the kind of story that they could
even, it wouldn't need to be like, uh, cartoons
or anime. It could have been, it could have,
it could be with actors.
So yeah, absolutely. I mean, it could be a
movie, you know, um. I, I, if maybe there,
there could be a way to, to have some
sort of, you know, narrator that's able to bring
some of the, uh, you know, the language into
that beyond just dialogue, you know what I mean?
So that, you know, one could get absorbed in
that story and that, in that way too, because
I think that that really was one of the,
one of the great parts of it. I really
did enjoy how it was written. You know, I
enjoyed the actual prose and not just, um, The
story itself and the music and the visuals, but
it was just, it all came together, you know
what I mean, which is so rare. Every part
of it came together to make it. Um, TO
make it just beautiful and perfect.
So, and, and as a writer, was there something
you learned from it that you think you're going
to apply in your own, your own work now?
Yeah, I mean, I, I, I wanna go into
the visual novel realm. I don't know how exactly
I'm going to get there, but I'm going to
get there. I mean, I'm already kind of partway
there. I don't think I told you this because
we haven't had a chance to discuss it, but
um I have a, a friend and business partner,
and we've started, um, a publishing house called Speakeasy
Editions, and it's not just publishing, it's also art
and merchandise, you know, we're, it's, it's story world
and, and series-based stories, you know, it's not just
like individual novels that come out. It's, it's worlds
and that are, you know, sometimes directly and sometimes
indirectly connected to, um, The sort of art and,
and print and photography collection that we have on,
on the, you know, on our, on our Store
and publishing house, you know, and, and then we're
also gonna have, have, you know, merchandise that sort
of brings you into those aesthetics and so we
wanna, you know, we're, we're Kind of in that
realm already, although obviously that's not that's not a
visual novel, but I, I really wanna go into
the visual novel space. At some point, sooner than
later. I just think it's phenomenal. And it, like
I said, it, I'd like to tell complicated stories,
you know, not complicated like convoluted, but I like
to tell stories that have, have some layers to
them, and that is just So much more, you
know, you can work with dual timelines so much
easier when you're dealing with a visual novel and
without losing people who are like, Wait a minute,
what time are we in? You know what I
mean? I understand that, you know, cause a lot
of really smart readers have a hard time with,
say, like dual timelines. You know, it, it's just
hard for them to follow. And um When you
are When you're approaching that story visually, it's, it
just becomes a lot easier, you know, you can,
you can really take them on that journey and
get them, um, Get them, you know, over those
sort of miscommunications that, that, that, you know, things
that they might have missed that signaled, no, no,
no, we're now in 1843 or whatever it is,
we're no longer, you know, in the present day.
Um, AND, I mean, God, with, with Fata Morgan,
talk about jumping timelines and, and you go from,
you know, you go back to the Middle Ages,
and then, you know, you fast forward. And so
that takes you all over the place. And yeah,
there are times when you're a little bit confused,
but it's never unsatisfying because, A, you're being brought
in visually. And you're, you're hearing music and all
of this, so you're sticking with it, and then
suddenly you have the revelation of where you are
and what has just the story that has just
been. Been presented to you, you know? Yeah. How
about you, do you have a hard time now
going back to regular novels after getting so absorbed
in visual novels, or is it, no, no, no,
I can go I can go back and forth
easily.
Uh, NO, I can go back and forth because
I haven't gotten really seriously into the, into visual
novels. I mean, Diaz and Fata Morganda, to be
honest, it's the only visual novel I've read up
till now, so. It's, it's not been that hard
for me. And I also, anyway, you read the
comics, uh, I, I mean, I, I read the
manga, uh Japanese manga and stuff like that. So
it has some elements of it. No, no, of
course not. It kind of reminds me of the
the Mr. Octopus, the, the octopus Teacher story. I
mean, it didn't remind me of that wasn't, but
I mean in terms of its complexity, you know
what I mean? And the drama, you know, and
the sort of mythological. Proportion of it, you know
what I mean? It was just, they're both such
big stories, and I was thinking that that octopus
Teacher story would make a great visual novel.
Yeah, probably,
probably would be brilliant.
I mean, I, I don't know what uh what's
with the, with Japanese people, but Japanese people in
terms of creating stories, it's almost like the Russians.
I, I, I
don't know I was gonna say I feel like
that they have. Taken over the, the mantle, you
know, the mantle has been passed to Japanese storytellers
from, from, um, you know, the great Russian novelists
to now, you know, the great Japanese storytellers. I
think you're right. I think currently, the Japanese are
the best storytellers in the world. Yeah. Hands down.
I mean, it's not even close.
I agree.
It's, it's really what the Russians were until 5
minutes ago. Yeah. You know.
Mhm. So, I mean, do you have any final
thoughts on the houses in Fata Morgan, something that
we might not have touched on, or?
Mm, I don't think so. I think we're pretty
thorough. Do you have anything else that you wanna
add that You know, I mean, the only thing
that I would say is, I mean that it's
so. It's such a satisfying experience for the reader
slash viewer, but I can't even, it would be
such a satisfying experience as a storyteller. To You
know, to find the correct the right music, to
find the right artist to illustrate the story, to
Edit it in such a way that it's long
enough but not too long, you know, that's correct
for the medium. It's just uh It's really kind
of Inspiring.
Hi guys, thank you for watching this interview until
the end. If you liked it, please share it,
leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by Nights Learning and
Development done differently, check their website at Nights.com and
also please consider supporting the show on Patreon or
PayPal. I would also like to give a huge
thank you to my main patrons and PayPal supporters
Pergo Larsson, Jerry Mullerns, Frederick Sundo, Bernard Seyche Olaf,
Alex Adam Castle, Matthew Whitting Barno, Wolf, Tim Hollis,
Erika Lenny, John Connors, Philip Fors Connolly. Then the
Matri Robert Windegaruyasi Zu Mark Nes calling in Holbrookfield
governor Michael Stormir Samuel Andre Francis Forti Agnunseroro and
Hal Herzognun Macha Joan Lays and the Samuel Curriere,
Heinz, Mark Smith, Jore, Tom Hummel, Sardus France David
Sloan Wilson, Asila dearraujoro and Roach Diego Londonorea. Yannick
Punteran Rosmani Charlotte blinikol Barbara Adamhn Pavlostaevskynaleb medicine, Gary
Galman Samov Zaledrianei Poltonin John Barboza, Julian Price, Edward
Hall Edin Bronner, Douglas Fry, Franca Bartolotti Gabrielon Scorteseus
Slelisky, Scott Zachary Fish Tim Duffyani Smith John Wieman.
Daniel Friedman, William Buckner, Paul Georgianneau, Luke Lovai Giorgio
Theophanous, Chris Williamson, Peter Vozin, David Williams, the Augusta,
Anton Eriksson, Charles Murray, Alex Shaw, Marie Martinez, Coralli
Chevalier, bungalow atheists, Larry D. Lee Junior, Old Heringbo.
Sterry Michael Bailey, then Sperber, Robert Grassy Zigoren, Jeff
McMahon, Jake Zu, Barnabas radix, Mark Campbell, Thomas Dovner,
Luke Neeson, Chris Stor, Kimberly Johnson, Benjamin Galbert, Jessica
Nowicki, Linda Brendon, Nicholas Carlsson, Ismael Bensleyman. George Eoriatis,
Valentin Steinman, Perkrolis, Kate van Goller, Alexander Aubert, Liam
Dunaway, BR Masoud Ali Mohammadi, Perpendicular John Nertner, Ursula
Gudinov, Gregory Hastings, David Pinsoff Sean Nelson, Mike Levin,
and Jos Net. A special thanks to my producers.
These are Webb, Jim, Frank Lucas Steffinik, Tom Venneden,
Bernard Curtis Dixon, Benedic Muller, Thomas Trumbull, Catherine and
Patrick Tobin, Gian Carlo Montenegroal Ni Cortiz and Nick
Golden, and to my executive producers, Matthew Levender, Sergio
Quadrian, Bogdan Kanivets, and Rosie. Thank you for all.